>> Will: We just started encountering some
mysterious behaviors by JavaScript there,
right, some mysterious behaviors.
We're gonna see how all of those play out.
They're all gonna rest on
this notion we saw here.
So here we go.
Before we do that,
we have to understand that we're
gonna encounter this scenario here.
Gonna encounter this side here.
Calling a function in the same
scope as it was defined, okay.
This is gonna start to answer,
I think it was Shelby's question or
it was Katy's question about, about.
Well, hold on.
What if I don't find the value,
the variable I'm looking for
inside my local memory?
Where do I look next?
We're going to see that play out here, and
we're gonna discover way to find
your functions fundamentally
determines what your function has
access to when you call the function.
That sounds pretty obvious right now.
It's gonna create a level of profundancy
we can't even yet imagine, all right.
So lets walk through this.
And as ever, I've not cleared
the whiteboard first unfortunately.
So I'm just going to boldly go ahead and
say, Muhammad, can
you speak very slowly and start walking
through what we're doing, Muhammad?
Not literally slowly, that would be weird,
but go ahead, Muhammad.
>> Muhammad: We are declaring
a function with the label outer.
>> Will: Declaring a function
with the label outer, excellent.
And where are are storing it, Muhammad?
>> Muhammad: In the global memory.
>> Will: In the global memory, perfect.
Thank you so much for speaking slowly.
There it is,
it's a whole function definition.
>> Will: There it is.
But I do these little
fs in my function now,
because if you look at Chrome dev tools,
when you console logger function now,
in the console it'll actually do
a little fancy f before the function.
Interesting, I don't know why.
All right, so
next line that we call, Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: When you're
calling the function outer.
>> Will: Calling function outer.
Everyone together.
Loud, clearly, and emphatically, when we
execute a function we create a brand new-
>> All: Execution context.
>> Will: See, it feels good, right.
Feels really good.
There it is.
The new execution context.
Draw it about this big.
There it is.
In which, so
what execution context reminders means
is outer is some functionality
that we want to run.
We wanna therefore go
through it line by line.
So we've gotta pause our thread,
we only got one thread
from running any code further down,
and take it inside the function.
That's the left hand side here.
So remember,
we're in the global execution context.
We're gonna go inside the local one for
outer, the thread's gonna go inside there,
out from global, into outer.
And we want to store in outer any
functions or variables that get
announced inside of outer's code.
Well we need some space to do that,
so we do them in the local memory.
This is the execution context.
When we call a function,
we push it to the call stack.
A stack of calls, to functions.
In to outer we go.
And what's the first thing we
do inside of outer, Andrew?
We're calling out,
what's the first thing we do inside?
>> Andrew: Let counter equal zero?
>> Will: So we declare counter and
initialize it to zero.
Counter is zero.
That's freed up a little bit of memory for
the number zero and
given it the label counter
inside of the code outer.
Not out here.
Let's be clear, if I have a console log
counter out here, there ain't no counter.
Only inside of the code outer.
All right, what's the next line
inside the code outer, Amine?
>> Amine: Declare a function,
increment counter.
>> Will: Good, and store it in?
>> Amine: Local memory.
>> Will: Local memory.
Excellent, Amine.
Thank you, and there it is.
Increment counter stored in local memory
and it's the whole function definition.
Let's not forget, if I had a console
log it, I would see function.
Increment counter, counter plus, etc.
Now, but what do I do next, Katie?
>> Katie: We execute
that declared function.
>> Will: Good,
we execute increment counter.
And therefore, everyone together,
we create a brand new?
>> All: Execution context.
>> Will: Yeah, exactly, so I can really
pick on my son, Dominique, saying it.
I shouldn't have said it into my mic so
loudly.
Execution context, exactly.
There it is.
Which has it's own,
has it's own little baby local memory.
Tiny little local memory for
increment counters, execution context.
There it is.
Local, and remember this is also
known as a variable environment.
A variable environment.
Posh name for the memory.
Okay, so call stack.
Lindsey, what happens when I a call stack?
>> Lindsey: We push on
the increment counter.
>> Will: Yes,
the code increment counter There it is.
It's now on top of our call stack.
We're a few layers in now.
And what's the first sign of code inside
increment counter that we encounter,
Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: Counter++.
>> Will: Counter++.
Now, where do I go looking for
that counter first, Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: Locally.
>> Will: Locally, exactly.
Partly because or so it might seem
because lowest of my call stack,
increment encounter is where I look for
stuff first cuz that's where I am.
I'm there.
So I look locally.
Do I find counter, Lindsay?
>> Lindsey: No.
>> Will: No, so do I error?
No, I don't error, it's not there but
where do I look next?
>> Lindsey: In the outer.
>> Will: Exactly, I look down my,
hold that thought looking down the call.
So we're gonna see it's not quite that,
but it feels like I look down my
call stack, right, and
what do I find the next level out?
But, Lindsay.
>> Lindsey: A counter.
>> Will: What do I do with it?
>> Lindsey: I add one to it.
>> Will: Increment it to one, perfect.
There we go, and now increment count
is execution context comes to a close.
Comes to a close, it's done.
And increment counts is called,
Lindsey, on the call stack gets?
>> Lindsey: Popped off.
>> Will: Popped off, and back to outer.
Anymore code to run in outer?
>> Lindsey: No.
>> Will: No, so
outer execution context, Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: Gets popped off.
>> Will: Popped off,
and outer is also done.
I don't see that's
particularly clear is it?
Well, all right.
All done.
Well what do we know?
We said where we define our
functions determines what variables
our function has access to
when I call the function.
Well, I defined increment counter, and it
immediately had a rounded count for zero.
I then called increment counter,
and what do you know?
While I didn't find counter
inside increment counter,
I looked one level up and
where, there I found it.
Counter is zero, it feels very okay,
this is how JavaScript works.
But what if I called my function
outside of where it was defined?
So right now, we've got no problems here.
I'm defining my function,
and what do you know?
When I call it in the immediate
same scope in which it was
defined,
>> Will: The encounter is not available in
the local memory, but look down
the call stack, look one level out,
there's counter, hurray.
We have a problem.
But what if I call this function out here,
not where it was defined, but
outside of where it was defined?
What if I ran it somewhere else,
We may already see that we're going
to have some serious issues here.
But is this gonna even work?
Can I even do this?
Can I even call increment counter outside.
Will this even, will this work, Kara?
Can I refer to,
have we defined increment counter?
Does this work?
This is my, the answer's no,
question voice.
It doesn't look it's gonna work, is it?
Because increment count was defined
inside of outer, not in global memory.
So I was saying we're gonna get
something very special is gonna happen
when I call my function outside
of where it was defined.
But how do I even do that, Muhammad?
How do I even call a function if
it was defined inside of outer?
How do I even call it out here, Muhammad?
>> Muhammad: You have to return it so
that it's able to be called outside.
>> Will: Yeah, let's see that in action.
There is a way to run a function outside
where it was defined, return the function,
and assign it to a new variable and
then call it by that variable and
then very nice.